Ronald Reagan, Carl Vinson Conduct Dual Carrier Strike Group Operations

WESTERN PACIFIC (June 1, 2017) –  The Ronald Reagan Strike Group and Carl Vinson Strike Group are conducting routine operations in the Western Pacific. The ships and aircraft assigned to both strike groups began coordinated operations in international waters on June 1.
"Conducting dual aircraft carrier operations with USS Carl Vinson provides the opportunity for us to exercise integrating the immense capabilities of two strike groups,” said Capt. Buzz Donnelly, commanding officer of the Navy's forward-deployed aircraft carrier, USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76). “It also vividly represents the commitment our Navy--operating alongside our friends and allies--has to the security and stability of this region," 
U.S. Navy aircraft carriers have conducted dual carrier strike group operations in the Western Pacific, including waters surrounding the Korean Peninsula, Sea of Japan, South China Sea, East China Sea and Philippine Sea for several years. These operations typically occur when strike groups deployed to 7th Fleet from the West Coast of the United States join 7th Fleet’s forward-deployed carrier strike group in Japan. Last year, USS Ronald Reagan and USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74) conducted combined operations in the Philippine Sea. In Sept. 2014, USS George Washington (CVN 73) and USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) strike groups conducted combined operations in the Western Pacific. In 2012, they operated in the South China Sea and East China Sea. In 2009, George Washington and USS Nimitz (CVN 68) operated together in the Western Pacific, and in 2001, USS Constellation (CV 64) and Carl Vinson operated together in the South China Sea.
The RRNSG, consisting of Ronald Reagan, Carrier Air Wing (CVW) 5, guided-missile cruiser USS Shiloh (CG 67), guided-missile destroyers USS Barry (DDG 52), USS John S. McCain (DDG 56), USS McCampbell (DDG 85) and USS Mustin (DDG 89) from Destroyer Squadron (DESRON) 15, is forward deployed to Yokosuka, Japan, and routinely patrols the Western Pacific. The CVNSG consists of the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson Carrier Air Wing (CVW) 2, guided-missile cruiser USS Lake Champlain (CG 57) and guided-missile destroyers USS Wayne E. Meyer (DDG 108) and USS Michael Murphy (DDG 112).
