USD-South Troops Dine With Under Secretary of Defense

BASRAH, Iraq – The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, Michele Flournoy, sat down for an informal lunch with troops from U.S. Division-South, Tuesday, to answer questions and give soldiers a view of the impact they have on the security of the nation.

Flournoy’s visit was part of a larger tour of southern Iraq focused on the drawdown of equipment and personnel prior to the transfer from a military-oriented mission to a diplomatic one.

“You all are at a critical juncture here in Iraq,” Flournoy said. “What you do over the next six months will determine if it is a smooth hand-off or a fumble to the Department of State.”

The under secretary did her best to answer a variety of questions from the soldiers, a mixture of active duty, National Guard and Reserve soldiers representing the units stationed at Contingency Operating Base Basra under the command of Maj. Gen. Eddy M. Spurgin, 36th Infantry Division commanding general, USD-South.

“It was pretty neat to see how humble she is,” said Spc. Vanessa L. Lopez, a human resources specialist with the 36th Inf. Div. “She didn’t try to use big words or speak over our heads; she tried to make sure we understood the answers to our questions and didn’t try to add any fluff if she didn’t know the answer.”

Lopez said it was great to hear the under secretary ask the Soldier’s directly how the deployment affected them and their families back home. 

The 22-year-old New Orleans native and resident of Austin, Texas, added that Flournoy helped give her a better overall picture of how she and her fellow soldiers affect the military mission during Operation New Dawn.

Other soldiers attending the luncheon agreed with Lopez’ assessment of the under secretary.

“It was nice having a member of our government come down and talk with us,” said Sgt. Zachary B. Mueller of Tampa, Fla., a communications platoon sergeant with 3rd Advise and Assist Brigade, 4th Inf. Div. “I was appreciative of her talking to the lower enlisted ranks, because it gives us the feeling that what we say matters.”

“I really appreciate that you’re here; appreciate your sacrifice and the sacrifices of your families,” Flournoy said to the troops. “This is a critical mission, and what you do is absolutely vital to the security of our nation.”
